---
title: FAQ
description: Below, we answer some of the most frequently asked questions we get. If you have a question that's not answered here, please ask them on our Discord! Our team and ecosystem is always online and ready to discuss new ideas and questions.
---

import { globalLinks } from "~/constants";

## General

### What is ZetaChain?

An EVM-compatible L1 blockchain that connects everything. ZetaChain make it easy
to build interoperable dApps that span any chain including Bitcoin. It
facilitates cross-chain and cross-layer value transfer, message delivery, and
smart contract calls — thus enabling for the first time omnichain dApps (odApps)
which can leverage liquidity on multiple networks and read and update states on
all connected networks.

Read more about ZetaChain [here](/about).

### Why is ZETA used as an intermediary token? Are intermediary tokens “bad”?

ZETA is used for many aspects of the network, including as an intermediary token
in the case of cross-chain value transfer. The coin is used as gas for the
network, just as ETH is used on Ethereum, as well as for maintaining and
incentivizing decentralization in the network — staking, bonding, slashing, and
so on. These properties provably provide a sustainable foundation to the
ZetaChain network's security, longevity, and scalability, especially when
compared to many other existing interoperability solutions which can be
centralized, poorly incentivized, and unsustainable long-term. Any asset or data
can still be transacted across any connected chain. Having ZETA as the
denomination of value moving cross-chain also provides ZetaChain an extremely
minimized attack surface that is not vulnerable to many of the exploits that
many projects in the interoperability space are susceptible to.

Read more about the ZETA token [here](/about/token-utility/token).

### What is ZETA?

ZETA is ZetaChain's native coin, one of the first coins that is natively issued
across many chains. ZETA is used for many aspects of the network, including as
an intermediary token in the case of cross-chain value transfer. The coin is
used as gas for the network, just as ETH is used on Ethereum, as well as for
maintaining and incentivizing decentralization in the network — staking,
bonding, slashing, and so on. These properties provably provide a sustainable
foundation to the ZetaChain network's security, longevity, and scalability,
especially when compared to many other existing interoperability solutions which
can be centralized, poorly incentivized, and unsustainable long-term. Any asset
or data can still be transacted across any connected chain. Having ZETA as the
denomination of value moving cross-chain also provides ZetaChain an extremely
minimized attack surface that is not vulnerable to many of the exploits that
many projects in the interoperability space are susceptible to.

### How do fees work on ZetaChain?

A user pays for all fees within a single transaction when performing cross-chain
actions through ZetaChain. All fees (ZetaChain network fees, destination gas
fees) are bundled in a single transaction.

### What is an omnichain dApp?

An omnichain dApp is a decentralized application that functions seamlessly
across blockchains and layers through ZetaChain. This can take the form of smart
contracts deployed on various chains which interact by passing messages and
value through ZetaChain, smart contracts deployed directly on ZetaChain which
manage assets on any or all connected chains, or some combination thereof.

### Is ZetaChain a "sidechain"?

No, ZetaChain is an L1 smart-contract-enabled blockchain that has chain-agnostic
interoperability built in. It is not a sidechain, rollup, or bridge.

### How does ZetaChain compare to other solutions?

ZetaChain is, at the time of writing, unique in its support for chain-agnostic
omnichain dApps. No other blockchain enables fully interoperable smart
contracts. This feature allows an unbounded platform to build omnichain and
cross-chain applications that function as if everything lived on a single chain.
Although some systems like Cosmos offer interoperability within the IBC
ecosystem, ZetaChain brings seamless interoperability to all chains, including
non-smart-contract chains like Bitcoin and Dogecoin. As a blockchain and smart
contract platform, ZetaChain provides a fully public, transparent, decentralized
interoperability solution that supports both omnichain messaging and smart
contracts. Developers on ZetaChain only need to implement their dApp logic,
while ZetaChain handles the transaction of data and value across chains in a
trust-minimized way. Rather than outsourcing security to third-party oracle and
relay like LayerZero to transfer data/value across chains -- which requires full
trust from the users in the applications and relayer + oracle -- ZetaChain
provides a simpler and more robust trust model to transact across chains where a
developer and user alike need only trust the network for the delivery of their
data and value. Read more about other interoperability solutions and how they
compare to ZetaChain in the [whitepaper](https://zetachain.com/whitepaper.pdf).

### Is ZetaChain a bridge? How is it different from a bridge?

ZetaChain is not a bridge. At its core, ZetaChain is a blockchain and
interoperability smart contract and messaging platform. One can build
need-specific bridges through ZetaChain, although ZetaChain has omnichain value
transfer built-in. Transferring value through ZetaChain also does not require
wrapping of assets. Wrapped assets and centralized vaults are often the points
of failure or exploits that result in losses of hundreds of millions of dollars
that are not uncommon (Wormhole hack, Poly Network hack). With ZetaChain, all
funds at rest are not at risk, because there is no interdependency via
wrapping/locking.

### What's the difference between ZetaChain messaging and smart contracts?

Messaging allows a developer to send data and value between smart contracts,
whether they are on ZetaChain or on connected chains. One can deploy smart
contracts on connected chains and just pass messages between them through
ZetaChain in a similar manner to other interoperability messaging protocols like
LayerZero, but ZetaChain's interoperable smart contracts let developers maintain
omnichain logic within a single place, reducing overhead and enabling smart
contract logic to control even non-smart-contract chains like Bitcoin and
Dogecoin.

## Security

### How does ZetaChain handle a case where a source TX is reverted (e. g. on a PoW chain due to an attack)?

Upon detection of the very deep re-organization, ZetaChain will halt and the
recovery would be a social process between various stakeholders including
ZetaChain validators and team, dApps developers, and end users. The dApps
developers should build in the capability to resolve inconsistent states due to
the very deep re-organization.

### Is there an interface where we can run a PoS validator?

Check out the validator docs [here](/nodes/start-here/requirements).

## Testnet and Mainnet

### When will mainnet be released?

We will be releasing a full schedule for the launch of our testnet and ZetaChain
mainnet soon. Stay tuned on our Twitter, Discord, and Telegram for updates. The
current testnet is live, and you can develop dApps with that.

### How do I get ZETA?

You can request testnet ZETA in the faucet channel on our Discord server or use
the faucet on the command line, learn more in the [faucet
docs](/reference/apps/get-testnet-zeta). This testnet ZETA does not and will
never have any monetary value. It is solely for testing purposes, so that people
can experience the use and power of ZetaChain.

### Does testnet ZETA have any value?

No, testnet ZETA does not have any value, and will never have any monetary
value. Performing transactions or acquiring ZETA on testnet networks is purely
for testing purposes.
