ZetaChain empowers developers to create universal applications that seamlessly
interact with any blockchain. Whether it's Ethereum, BNB chain, Solana, TON, or
even non-smart contract chains like Bitcoin, ZetaChain allows your apps to
operate across them all with ease.

Universal apps built on ZetaChain benefit from simplified cross-chain
development, enhanced security, and a significantly improved user experience.

### Chain Orchestration

One of the standout features of ZetaChain is its ability to orchestrate complex
transactions across multiple blockchains from a single smart contract. Universal
apps built on ZetaChain can manage incoming token transfers and contract calls
from different blockchains and initiate outgoing transactions to connected
networksâ€”all within a unified framework.

For example, suppose you have an application that needs to interact with both
Ethereum and Solana. Traditionally, you would need to write separate codebases
and manage intricate communication protocols between the two chains. With
ZetaChain, your universal app can handle these operations seamlessly,
coordinating transactions across chains without the need for multiple contracts
or complex interoperability solutions.

This chain orchestration capability simplifies the development process, reduces
the potential for errors, and ensures that your application can scale as it
integrates with more blockchains.

### Forwards Compatibility

Deploying an app on ZetaChain means it automatically becomes connected to all
networks linked to ZetaChain. As new blockchains are added to the ZetaChain
ecosystem, your universal app gains compatibility with these networks without
any additional effort or modifications to your contract's source code.

This forward compatibility is a significant advantage, as it future-proofs your
application. You don't have to anticipate which blockchains might become popular
or widely adopted in the future; your app will be ready to interact with them as
soon as they are integrated into ZetaChain. This not only saves development time
but also ensures that your app remains relevant and accessible to users across
different blockchain networks.

This feature simplifies maintenance, as you don't need to update your contracts
or redeploy your application whenever a new blockchain is connected. Your app
can continue to operate smoothly, providing a consistent user experience even as
the underlying blockchain landscape evolves.

### Familiar Developer Experience

ZetaChain runs smart contracts on its Universal Ethereum Virtual Machine (UEVM),
which is fully compatible with Ethereum's EVM. This means developers can write
smart contracts in Solidity or other EVM-compatible languages, leveraging their
existing knowledge and expertise.

The platform supports popular development tools like Foundry, Hardhat, Slither,
and Ethers.js right out of the box. This compatibility allows developers to use
familiar workflows, debugging tools, and testing frameworks, making the process
of building universal apps more efficient and less error-prone.

For instance, if you're accustomed to using Hardhat for compiling and deploying
smart contracts on Ethereum, you can continue to use it seamlessly with
ZetaChain. This reduces the learning curve and accelerates the development
process, enabling you to focus on building innovative features rather than
grappling with new tooling or languages.

### Transfer Native Tokens

One of the core capabilities of universal apps on ZetaChain is the ability to
transfer value using native tokens across all connected chains. This means users
can perform transactions involving the actual native assets of each blockchain,
rather than wrapped or synthetic versions.

For example, a user can send native USDC from Ethereum directly to Polygon, or
swap native BTC from the Bitcoin network for PEPE tokens on Ethereum. This
cross-chain token transfer functionality enhances liquidity and provides a more
seamless experience for users, who no longer need to rely on intermediaries or
complex token wrapping mechanisms.

To facilitate these transfers, universal apps have access to unified liquidity
pools on ZetaChain. These pools aggregate liquidity from all connected chains,
containing tokens that have been transferred to ZetaChain from their respective
networks.

Adding liquidity to these unified pools involves transferring tokens to the
custody of ZetaChain validators on the connected chains. For instance, ZetaChain
validators hold custody of ETH, USDC, and other tokens on Ethereum. This custody
mechanism is secured through robust consensus protocols and validator
incentives, ensuring the safety of the assets.

This system allows users to send tokens to and from universal apps, as well as
directly between connected chains, without the need for centralized exchanges or
third-party bridges. It streamlines the user experience and reduces the risks
associated with cross-chain transactions, such as double-spending or transaction
failures.

By using native tokens, users benefit from the inherent properties of those
assets, including their security features, consensus mechanisms, and existing
network effects. This enhances trust and reliability in cross-chain operations
conducted through ZetaChain-powered universal apps.
