---
title: Universal Apps
---

import { Alert } from "~/components/shared";

## Overview

A universal app is a smart contract on ZetaChain that is natively connected to
other blockchains like Ethereum, BNB and Bitcoin.

Unlike a regular contract, a universal app can accept contract calls, messages
and token transfers from any connected chain. It can also trigger contract
calls, and make token transfers on connected chains. These abilities enable
universal apps to orchestrate complex multi-step transactions that span across
chains.

For example, a Bitcoin user can interact with a universal app to send USDC to a
recipient on Ethereum. An Ethereum user can buy an NFT on ZetaChain and send it
to to their account on the BNB chain.

Universal apps are deployed on ZetaChain's universal EVM, which extends the EVM
with omnichain interoperability features. This means your existing contracts
will work out of the box on ZetaChain, and with some modifications, they can
gain powerful omnichain capabilities.

Here's an example universal app:

```solidity
pragma solidity 0.8.26;

import "@zetachain/protocol-contracts/contracts/zevm/interfaces/UniversalContract.sol";

contract UniversalApp is UniversalContract {
    function onCall(
        MessageContext calldata context,
        address zrc20,
        uint256 amount,
        bytes calldata message
    ) external virtual override {
        // ...
    }
}
```

## Calling Universal Apps

Users can call universal apps by interacting with a **Gateway contract** on a
connected chain. Each connected chain has a single Gateway contract that exposes
methods to deposit tokens to and call universal apps. Users can pass both data
and tokens when calling universal apps.

<Alert>
  {" "}
  Gateway is an upcoming unified interface that will replace the TSS address and ERC-20 custody contract. Gateway is scheduled
  for release towards the end of Q3 2024.{" "}
</Alert>

In this example an Ethereum user sends 1 ETH and a message "hello" to a
universal app:

<iframe
  style={{ border: "1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.1)", marginTop: "2rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
  width="100%"
  height="450"
  src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Fboard%2FgPX2Rjuxb44SYr1FTwZCXv%2FIntro-1%3Fnode-id%3D0-1%26t%3DowucPIvKfVlZrHJR-1"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

A call to a universal app triggers an `onCall` method.

A universal app receives:

- a message (in this example, `"hello"`) containing arbitrary data. A message
  can include recipient address, a token address, properties of an NFT to be
  minted, etc.
- tokens represented as ZRC-20 (in this example, 1 ZRC-20 ETH).

Each native gas and supported ERC-20 token from connected chains has a
corresponding ZRC-20 token on ZetaChain. ZRC-20 tokens are ERC-20-compatible and
can be permissionlessly transferred back (withdrawn) to their original chain
(ZRC-20 ETH on ZetaChain becomes ETH on Ethereum).

`onCall` also has access to additional context information such as the original
sender address and chain ID.

Universal apps can also initiate token transfers and contract calls to connected
chains.

In this example a universal app:

- accepts 6 ETH and "I want BNB" (bytes that represent the destination token)
  from Ethereum
- swaps 6 ZRC-20 ETH for ZRC-20 BNB using a decentralized exchange on ZetaChain
- calls the Gateway contract to withdraw ZRC-20 BNB and call a contract on the
  BNB chain

Of course, a single universal app call can trigger more than one call to
different chains.

<iframe
  style={{ border: "1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.1)", marginTop: "2rem", borderRadius: "0.5rem" }}
  width="100%"
  height="450"
  src="https://www.figma.com/embed?embed_host=share&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.figma.com%2Fboard%2FKtVyu73smn4q9P4Gq5Bczn%2FIntro-2%3Fnode-id%3D0-1%26t%3DB7lT6avDGo620CZb-1"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

With a universal app a complex sequence of transactions and value transfers that
span multiple blockchains can be triggered by a single user-signed transaction.

## Bitcoin Support

Universal apps are fully-compatible with Bitcoin. The same universal app
contract can receive calls from any connected chain.

Users can call universal apps from the Bitcoin network by sending BTC and data
to the **Gateway address**. To make a call to a universal app a Bitcoin user
only needs to sign a single transaction using their wallet of choice. Universal
apps offer gas abstraction, so end-user are not required to have an account on
chains other than Bitcoin or acquire gas tokens.

## Gas Abstraction

Incoming calls to universal apps from connected chains do not incur additional
gas costs aside from the initial interaction with the Gateway contract.

Outgoing calls from universal apps (like contract calls and token withdrawals)
to connected chains require gas. Universal EVM offers tools to query gas, and
it's up to each universal app to make sure that the contract has the right
amount of ZRC-20 gas token to cover the gas fees.

In practice it means that a universal app would swap a fraction of the incoming
ZRC-20 token to the ZRC-20 of the gas token of the chain to which an outgoing
call is made. When an outgoing call or withdrawal is made, a required amount of
ZRC-20 gas token is deducted to cover the gas fees on the destination chain.

For end user this system abstracts away the complexities of cross-chain gas. As
long as the user provides a sufficient amount as input (in the token of their
choosing), the gas fees will be covered.

## Summary

- Universal apps:
  - can receive contract calls and tokens from users and contracts on connected
    chains
  - can trigger contract calls and token transfers to connected chains
  - can automatically handle gas for cross-chain transactions
  - are fully compatible with EVM chains (like Ethereum, BNB, and Polygon),
    Bitcoin, Solana. Support for TON and Cosmos (through IBC) and other chains
    is coming soon.
- Native gas and supported ERC-20 tokens are represented as ZRC-20 tokens. A
  ZRC-20 token can be permissionlessly withdrawn back to its original chain.
