---
title: Account Addresses
---

import { AddressConverter } from "~/components/Docs";
import { Alert } from "~/components/shared";

## Overview

ZetaChain is built with Cosmos SDK and uses the Ethermint module to provide EVM
compatibility. Being both a Cosmos and an EVM chain means that ZetaChain
supports two types of addresses: [bech32 Cosmos
addresses](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/spec/addresses/bech32) and
[hex EVM addresses](https://ethereum.org/developers/docs/accounts).

Bech32 addresses are known for their human-readable format, which typically
starts with a prefix related to the specific blockchain. These addresses are
designed to reduce the risk of errors in transcription and input, thanks to
their built-in error detection capabilities. ZetaChain uses the `zeta` prefix
for its bech32 addresses.

EVM addresses, on the other hand, are represented as 20-byte hexadecimal strings
and are used to identify accounts on the Ethereum Virtual Machine.

A single account can be represented by both a bech32 address and an EVM address
if they are derived from the same public key.

For example, let's consider the following bech32 address:

```
zeta19nfaqu9wr0fktyyampva98ec025kjy0phww5um
```

You can query the balance of the account associated with this address using the
HTTP API:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/cosmos/bank/v1beta1/balances/zeta19nfaqu9wr0fktyyampva98ec025kjy0phww5um

The equivalent EVM address for the same account is:

```
0x2cD3D070aE1BD365909dD859d29F387AA96911e1
```

You can also query the balance of the account associated with this address using
the HTTP API:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/ethermint/evm/v1/balances/0x2cD3D070aE1BD365909dD859d29F387AA96911e1

As you can see, both queries return the same balance.

This means, for example, that you can import the same mnemonic into a Cosmos
wallet and an EVM wallet and access the same account. Some wallets, like Keplr
display both bech32 and hex addresses.

<Alert variant="tip">
  {" "}
  You don't need to transfer your tokens between a bech32 address and an hex address that represent the same account.{" "}
</Alert>

## Account Type

If you're having issues interacting from the same account from Cosmos and EVM
wallets, check out the account type using the chain's API:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/cosmos/auth/v1beta1/accounts/zeta19nfaqu9wr0fktyyampva98ec025kjy0phww5um

For Cosmos and EVM compatiblity the account `@type` should be
`/ethermint.crypto.v1.ethsecp256k1.PubKey`.

## Account Address Converter

To convert between bech32 and EVM addresses, you can use the [address
converter](/reference/network/address-converter).
