Cross-chain transactions (CCTXs) can be classified into two main types: incoming
and outgoing.

**Incoming transactions** (connected chain → ZetaChain) are initiated on a
connected chain and result in a transaction on ZetaChain. An incoming
transaction consists of two transactions:

- Inbound: a transaction is initiated and observed on the connected chain.
- Outbound: the corresponding transaction is broadcasted and executed on
  ZetaChain.

**Outgoing transactions** (ZetaChain → connected chain) are initiated on
ZetaChain and result in a transaction on a connected chain. An outgoing
transaction consists of two transactions:

- Inbound: A transaction is initiated and observed on ZetaChain.
- Outbound: The corresponding transaction is broadcasted and executed on the
  connected chain.

Tracking a CCTX involves querying ZetaChain's Cosmos SDK HTTP API with an
inbound transaction hash to get a CCTX hash. If a CCTX results in another CCTX
(for example, an incoming results in an outgoing), the first CCTX hash can be
used as a inbound hash to get the second CCTX hash.

## Incoming & Outgoing

Consider an example of making call from Ethereum Sepolia to a universal app
contract on ZetaChain, which triggers an outgoing call from ZetaChain to Polygon
Amoy.

In this example a user calls EVM Gateway's `depositAndCall` to call [a universal
swap contract on ZetaChain](/developers/tutorials/swap), which swaps incoming
tokens for target ZRC-20 tokens and calls ZetaChain's Gateway `withdraw`
function, which triggers a token transfer on Polygon Amoy.

This example involves two CCTXs:

1. Ethereum Sepolia → ZetaChain Testnet
2. ZetaChain Testnet → Polygon Amoy

An inbound transaction on Ethereum Sepolia:

https://sepolia.etherscan.io/tx/0x8e925fa63c69bd27a3aa8e30f4c0f1e67e5fd3fedb23339b387b51b1543e55af

Use the inbound transaction hash to get the CCTX 1 hash:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/zeta-chain/crosschain/inboundHashToCctxData/0x8e925fa63c69bd27a3aa8e30f4c0f1e67e5fd3fedb23339b387b51b1543e55af

Use the CCTX 1 hash (`0x542b...11da`) as an inbound hash to get CCTX 2 hash:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/zeta-chain/crosschain/inboundHashToCctxData/0x542b6bd80004f4013b725c2170b9ed01731b8af9dc61bfb5c0534dc2f0d511da

Outbound hash on Polygon Amoy:

https://amoy.polygonscan.com/tx/0x49f67ece0c0b59d58312df91342d46b14496abf2d8a52a1a5ce9f4c6136e8d75

## Incoming

Consider an example of making call from Ethereum Sepolia to a universal app
contract on ZetaChain.

In this example a user calls EVM Gateway's `depositAndCall` to call [a universal
swap contract on ZetaChain](/developers/tutorials/swap), which swaps incoming
tokens for target ZRC-20 tokens, which are transferred to the recipient on
ZetaChain.

This example results in a single CCTX: Ethereum Sepolia → ZetaChain Testnet.

An inbound transaction on Ethereum Sepolia:

https://sepolia.etherscan.io/tx/0xfacdad3d12988e1065e32b757d1bbc7e868fb8cbae51c909b3f178027d233f79

CCTX:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/zeta-chain/crosschain/inboundHashToCctxData/0xfacdad3d12988e1065e32b757d1bbc7e868fb8cbae51c909b3f178027d233f79

If you try querying the API with the CCTX hash as an inbound hash, the API
responds with HTTP 404 response, because this CCTX does not trigger another
CCTX.

## Incoming & Abort

Consider an example of making call from Ethereum Sepolia to a universal app
contract on ZetaChain, which aborts.

In this example a user calls EVM Gateway's `depositAndCall` to call [a universal
swap contract on ZetaChain](/developers/tutorials/swap), which swaps incoming
tokens for target ZRC-20 tokens, but the amount of supplied tokens is not enough
to cover the withdraw gas fee to Polygon Amoy, so the transaction reverts. The
amount of tokens is also not sufficient to cover a revert transaction to
Ethereum Sepolia, so the transaction abort.

An inbound transaction on Ethereum Sepolia:

https://sepolia.etherscan.io/tx/0x254d687404ff8f1cd481d2b25866e8c0a68c5d7fde08deaa60e61577752e1466

CCTX:

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/zeta-chain/crosschain/inboundHashToCctxData/0x254d687404ff8f1cd481d2b25866e8c0a68c5d7fde08deaa60e61577752e1466

## Incoming & Revert

An example of making call from Base Sepolia to a universal app contract on
ZetaChain, which reverts.

In this example a user calls EVM Gateway's `depositAndCall` to call [a universal
swap contract on ZetaChain](/developers/tutorials/swap), which swaps incoming
tokens for target ZRC-20 tokens, but the amount of supplied tokens is not enough
to cover the withdraw gas fee to Polygon Amoy, so the transaction reverts.

An inbound transaction on Base Sepolia:

https://sepolia.basescan.org/tx/0x9fcff3ff5ec57b7198543e6a204f08447d6dd8dc54d33100e3e79f6deb8dc407

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/zeta-chain/crosschain/inboundHashToCctxData/0x9fcff3ff5ec57b7198543e6a204f08447d6dd8dc54d33100e3e79f6deb8dc407

Revert transaction back on Base Sepolia:

https://sepolia.basescan.org/tx/0xd86a5babfb7c3297b98d05d145707010aa8f7b690af151729035c3e2d0567eae

## Multiple Outgoing

A single transaction can trigger more than one CCTXs.

In this example a single function call on ZetaChain makes multiple Gateway
`call`s to different chains.

https://zetachain-athens.blockpi.network/lcd/v1/public/zeta-chain/crosschain/inboundHashToCctxData/0x3d56898690abb98a514b0b05b799c0d61c0e305a5f962504f3b301adf01b1b34
