---
title: Gas Fees
---

import { Fees } from "~/components/Docs";

import { Alert } from "~/components/shared";

## Calling Universal Apps

When calling or depositing tokens to a universal app on ZetaChain through the
Gateway on a connected chain, you pay the fee in the native gas token of that
chain, similar to a standard transaction. There are no additional charges or
fees and execution of universal apps on ZetaChain can be considered gasless,
when a call is made from a connected chain.

For example, if you are depositing ETH from Ethereum to ZetaChain, the fee will
be in ETH. For more information on Ethereum gas and fees, refer to the [official
documentation](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/gas/).

If a contract on ZetaChain's EVM is called directly (not from a connected
chain), users need to include a fee for gas for each transaction. The gas market
mechanism for smart contracts on ZetaChain's EVM is similar to that of
[Ethermint](https://docs.ethermint.zone/basics/gas.html) and follows Ethereum's
EIP 1559 gas fee structure. This system is designed to deter spamming activities
on the network.

## Outgoing Calls and Withdrawals

When making a call from a universal app to a contract on a connected chain or
withdrawing ZRC-20 tokens back to a connected chain, the "withdraw gas fee" is
applicable.

Before making a call from a universal app to a contract on a connected chain,
query the withdraw gas fee for the expected gas limit:

```solidity
(address gasZRC20, uint256 gasFee) = IZRC20(zrc20).withdrawGasFeeWithGasLimit(gasLimit);
```

- `gasZRC20` is the address of the gas token of the chain to which the
  call/withdrawal is being made. For example, both for Ethereum USDC and ETH the
  gas ZRC-20 is ETH.
- `gasFee` is the amount of tokens that will be charged for the call/withdrawal
  operation for the specified gas limit.

It's important to query an up-to-date gas amount before executing Gateway
call/withdraw/withdrawAndCall methods, have the gas fee amount of the gas ZRC-20
token and approve the Gateway to spend the amount. If the Gateway fails to
transfer the gas fee amount to itself, the outgoing call/withdrawal will fail.

Before withdrawing ZRC-20 tokens to a connected chain, query the withdraw gas
fee:

```solidity
(address gasZRC20, uint256 gasFee) = IZRC20(zrc20).withdrawGasFee();
```

The withdraw call results in a token transfer on a connected chain, so it
doesn't need a gas limit.

## Current Fees

In the table below you can see the current fees. The fees are defined in native
gas tokens on the destination chain (the chain to which ZRC-20 tokens are
withdrawn). The fees are calculated with the gas limit of 500000.

<Fees type="omnichain" />

To calculate fees for a different gas limit, please, check out the `fees`
command in the smart-contract
[template](https://github.com/zeta-chain/template):

```
npx hardhat fees
```
