---
title: "Universal EVM"
---

ZetaChain is a Proof of Stake (PoS) blockchain built on the Cosmos SDK and the
Comet BFT consensus engine. It serves as a universal connector for multiple
blockchains, simplifying cross-chain interactions and fostering a unified
ecosystem. Leveraging the robust foundations of the Cosmos SDK and Comet BFT,
ZetaChain provides fast block times (approximately five seconds), instant
finality (eliminating the need for confirmations and preventing chain
reorganizations), and high throughput capabilitiesâ€”potentially reaching up to a
hundred transactions per second.

## Architecture Overview

### Hub-and-Spoke Model

Operating on a hub-and-spoke model, ZetaChain acts as the central hub connecting
multiple external blockchains, which function as the spokes. This centralized
approach simplifies cross-chain communication by ensuring consistent protocols,
reducing complexity, and enhancing security. All messages and transactions
between connected chains pass through ZetaChain, streamlining integration and
scalability as new chains are added to the network.

### Validators

ZetaChain's network relies on two types of validators essential for its
operation and security: **Core Validators** and **Observer-Signer Validators**.

**Core Validators** run the ZetaChain node, known as **ZetaCore**. They
participate in the core consensus process of the blockchain using the Comet BFT
consensus protocol. Their primary responsibility is to maintain the blockchain's
integrity by producing blocks and maintaining the replicated state machine. By
engaging in the consensus mechanism, they ensure that the network remains secure
and that transactions are processed accurately.

Anyone who stakes sufficient ZETA tokens can become a validator, contributing to
the network's decentralization and permissionless nature. Validators are
incentivized through transaction fees and rewards, aligning their interests with
the security and stability of the network. By staking bonds in the form of ZETA
tokens, validators have a vested interest in acting honestly and maintaining
network security, as malicious actions can lead to penalties such as slashing of
their staked tokens.

**Observer-Signer Validators** run both the ZetaChain node (**ZetaCore**) and
the **ZetaClient**. Observer-Signer validators monitor both ZetaChain and
connected external blockchains for specific events that signify cross-chain
transactions. Upon detecting an event, they create ballots to vote on the
event's validity, requiring a simple majority agreement for the transaction to
be considered valid. Once consensus is achieved, the observer set generates the
corresponding outbound transaction to be sent to the destination chain.

Validators participate in signing transactions using a Threshold Signature
Scheme (TSS), a cryptographic mechanism that ensures no single validator
controls the signing key. Instead, a subset of validators must collaborate to
produce a valid signature, enhancing security and fault tolerance.

## Modules and Components

ZetaChain's functionality is organized into several key modules, each
responsible for specific aspects of cross-chain transaction processing.

### CrossChain Module

The CrossChain module manages the state and lifecycle of cross-chain
transactions (CCTX), serving as the central ledger for tracking their progress
and statuses. It handles the creation of new cross-chain transaction records
when inbound events are validated, updates transaction statuses based on events
(such as `PendingInbound`, `PendingOutbound`, `OutboundMined`), and stores
detailed parameters for both inbound and outbound transactions, including sender
and receiver information, asset details, and transaction hashes.

### Observer Module

The Observer module handles the operations of the observer set, including
validator management, voting mechanisms, and consensus policies. It maintains a
list of authorized observers eligible to participate in the consensus process,
creates and tracks ballots for each observed event to facilitate the voting
process, and defines core parameters such as ballot thresholds, minimum observer
delegation, and supported chains.

### Fungible Module

The Fungible module facilitates the deployment and management of fungible tokens
(ZRC20 tokens) representing assets from connected blockchains on ZetaChain. It
handles the deployment of ZRC20 contracts corresponding to foreign coins from
connected chains, manages pools and liquidity for these tokens, and provides
functions for depositing to and calling omnichain smart contracts on ZetaChain
from connected chains.

### Emissions Module

The Emissions module orchestrates the distribution of rewards to network
participants, including observers, validators, and TSS signers. It calculates
rewards based on participation metrics and predefined parameters, distributes
rewards from a pre-funded emissions pool, and allows participants to securely
withdraw their earned rewards.

### Authority Module

The Authority module encapsulates logic for administrative functions and
permission checks, ensuring that only authorized entities can perform sensitive
actions. It maintains tables for different admin groups and their permissions,
validates whether a user or entity has the necessary permissions to execute
specific actions, and facilitates changes to admin groups or permissions through
governance proposals, ensuring transparent and decentralized decision-making.

## Protocol Contracts

To facilitate interactions between users and the ZetaChain network, protocol
contracts are deployed on both ZetaChain and connected external chains. These
contracts provide standardized interfaces and functions necessary for initiating
and managing cross-chain transactions.

### ZetaChain Contracts

- **GatewayZEVM** serves as the primary entry point for users to initiate
  cross-chain transactions from ZetaChain to external chains. It enables users
  to withdraw assets, call smart contracts on connected chains, and manages the
  minting and burning of ZRC20 tokens representing assets from external chains.

- **ZRC20 Contracts** represent fungible tokens from connected chains within
  ZetaChain, following the ERC20 standard. They allow seamless asset transfers
  and interactions on ZetaChain.

### EVM Contracts

- **GatewayEVM** acts as the entry point for users on external chains to
  interact with ZetaChain. It allows users to deposit assets to ZetaChain, call
  smart contracts on ZetaChain, and emits events necessary for observers to
  initiate cross-chain transactions.

- **ERC20Custody** holds ERC20 tokens deposited by users on external chains
  during cross-chain transactions, ensuring that deposited tokens are securely
  stored until the transaction is processed.

- **ZetaConnector** manages ZETA tokens on external chains, handling both native
  and non-native scenarios. It facilitates the movement of ZETA tokens between
  ZetaChain and external chains by using a lock/unlock mechanism for native
  tokens or minting/burning for wrapped tokens.

## Economic Incentives and Bonded Stakes

ZetaChain employs bonded stakes and positive/negative incentives to ensure
economic safety and encourage validators to act honestly. Validators are
required to stake bonds in the form of ZETA tokens, which are at risk if they
act maliciously or negligently. This staking mechanism aligns the interests of
validators with the network's health and security.

Validators earn transaction fees and block rewards in return for their services
in processing transactions and maintaining network security. Those who act
dishonestly or fail to fulfill their duties can have a portion of their staked
bonds slashed as a penalty. Positive incentives are provided to encourage
validators to remain online and actively participate in consensus and
observation processes.

## Cross-Chain Transaction Workflow

Cross-chain transactions are fundamental to ZetaChain's functionality, enabling
seamless asset transfers and data exchanges between ZetaChain and connected
external blockchains. The workflow differs depending on whether the transaction
is **incoming** (from a connected chain to ZetaChain) or **outgoing** (from
ZetaChain to a connected chain). In both cases, the process involves initiation,
validation, execution, and handling of successes or failures, all orchestrated
to ensure security, efficiency, and reliability.

For **incoming transactions**, a user initiates a transaction on a connected
external blockchain by interacting with gateway contracts, such as depositing
assets or invoking a cross-chain call. Observer-Signer Validators monitor the
connected chain for specific inbound events emitted by these gateway contracts.
Upon detecting such an event, they observe the transaction details and vote on
its legitimacy on ZetaChain, reaching consensus through the network's voting
mechanism. Once consensus is achieved, the transaction is processed on
ZetaChain, updating the state, crediting assets to the user's account, or
executing any specified smart contract logic.

In **outgoing transactions**, a user or smart contract on ZetaChain initiates a
transaction intended for a connected external blockchain. Validators on
ZetaChain process the transaction and prepare the outbound transaction details,
ensuring all parameters are correct and the transaction complies with protocol
rules. They use a Threshold Signature Scheme (TSS) to collaboratively sign the
outbound transaction, enhancing security by requiring multiple validators to
participate. The signed outbound transaction is then submitted and executed on
the connected external blockchain; validators effectively sign the transaction
on the connected chain, ensuring it is valid and accepted by that network.

If the outbound transaction executes successfully, assets or data are
transferred as intended, and the transaction is finalized. If it fails due to
execution errors, insufficient gas, or other issues, ZetaChain has mechanisms to
handle reverts. Validators can initiate a revert transaction based on predefined
revert options, which may involve returning assets to the source chain or
executing custom error-handling logic specified by the developer. In rare cases
where both the outbound and revert transactions fail, the transaction is marked
as aborted, and special mechanisms secure any associated assets. Throughout this
process, ZetaChain leverages a robust consensus mechanism and secure transaction
processes to ensure that both incoming and outgoing cross-chain transactions are
executed efficiently and securely, enhancing interoperability across different
blockchain networks while minimizing risks and maintaining user trust.

## Conclusion

ZetaChain brings a practical, streamlined approach to one of the biggest
challenges in blockchain: cross-chain communication. By serving as a central
hub, it simplifies what would otherwise be complex and fragmented processes
across different blockchains. Developers gain a powerful platform that removes
much of the friction associated with building across multiple networks, without
sacrificing security or performance. With a strong validator network, reliable
consensus mechanisms, and built-in support for cross-chain transactions,
ZetaChain sets the stage for a future where blockchains can work together more
naturally, expanding what's possible in decentralized applications. It's not
just a technical solutionâ€”it's a key piece in the puzzle of a more connected
blockchain ecosystem.
