---
title: Glossary
description: Below, we define some frequently used terms in the ZetaChain ecosystem and during ZetaChain development.
---

## Chain Id

Every EVM chain has their own, unique id, represented by a number.

[Chainlist](https://chainlist.org/) is a great resource to find EVM chain ids by
chain name.

## Core Validator

ZetaChain uses the Tendermint consensus protocol which is a partially
synchronous Byzantine Fault Tolerant (BFT) consensus algorithm. Each validator
node can vote on block proposals with voting power proportional to the staking
coins (ZETA) bonded. Each validator is identified by its consensus public key.
Validators need to be online all the time, ready to participate in the
constantly growing block production. In exchange for their service, validators
will receive block rewards, and potentially other rewards such as gas fees or
processing fees, proportional to their bonded staking coins.

## Cross-Chain

Blanket term for anything that is transacting data or value between different
blockchains.

## Externally Managed Vault/Assets

The ZetaChain validator set can manage vaults on connected chains just as an
account on that chain can, through its TSS architecture. This functionality
allows even non-smart-contract chains like Bitcoin to be managed by contracts on
ZetaChain.

## Hyper-Connected Node

ZetaChain's node observes and processes transactions from all connected chains.
By being "hyper-connected" the node is able to support chain-agnostic
observation and thus interoperability.

## Multichain

Blanket term for apps or concepts that span multiple blockchains.

## Observer Validator

The observers watch externally connected chains for certain relevant
transactions/events/states at particular addresses via their full nodes of
connected chains.

## Omnichain

As if all blockchains or layers were connected into a single chain. ZetaChain is
an 'omnichain' solution, since it is chain-agnostic and allows interoperability
between all connected chains.

## Omnichain messaging

Messaging value and/or data between chains seamlessly (via ZetaChain).

## Omnichain smart contracts

ZetaChain's native smart contracts are omnichain, meaning that they can manage,
read, and write state to/from connected chains. These smart contracts are the
first of their kind, and unlock a new paradigm of dApps that transcend
individual chains and layers.

## Revert

During a cross-chain transaction, the case that a destination transaction fails
(insufficient funds sent, unforeseen changes on the destination, etc.) ZetaChain
is capable of reverting the transaction and returning funds to the sender on the
source chain.

## Signer Validator

The ZetaChain collectively holds standard ECDSA/EdDSA keys for authenticated
interaction with connected chains. The keys are distributed among multiple
signers in such a way that only a super majority of them can sign on behalf of
the ZetaChain. Its important to ensure that at no time is any single entity or
small fraction of nodes able to sign messages on behalf of ZetaChain on
connected chains. The ZetaChain system uses bonded stakes and positive/negative
incentives to ensure economic safety

## TSS

Threshold Signature Scheme. To avoid any single point of failure, ZetaChain uses
state-of-the-art multi-party threshold signature scheme (TSS). To the outside
world, the ZetaChain validators collectively possess a single ECDSA/EdDSA
private key, public key, and address, and the signature signed by ZetaChain can
be verified efficiently and natively by standard ECDSA/EdDSA verification
procedure by the connected blockchains. Internally, the private key is generated
without a dealer, and the private key is distributed in all the validators. At
no time is a single entity or a minority of validators able to piece together
the private key and sign messages on behalf of the whole network. The key
generation and signing procedures are done by Multi-Party Computation (MPC)
which reveal no secret of any participating node. Because ZetaChain can hold a
TSS key and address, ZetaChain can support smart contracts that can manage
native vaults/pools on connected chains including Bitcoin. This effectively adds
smart contract capabilities to the Bitcoin network, and potentially other
non-smart contract blockchains. The TSS employed by ZetaChain gives the
performance and convenience of hot wallet with cold wallet level security.

## ZRC-20

ZRC-20 is a token standard integrated into ZetaChain's omnichain smart contract
platform. At a high-level, ZRC-20 tokens are an extension of the standard ERC-20
tokens found in the Ethereum ecosystem, ZRC-20 tokens have the added ability to
manage assets on all ZetaChain-connected chains. Any fungible token, including
Bitcoin, Dogecoin, ERC-20-equivalents on other chains, gas assets on other
chains, and so on, may be represented on ZetaChain as a ZRC-20 and orchestrated
as if it were any other fungible token (like an ERC-20).
