---
title: Privileged Actions
---

import { AdminPolicy } from "~/components/Docs";
import { Alert } from "~/components/shared";

Certain privileged actions (transaction messages) are only allowed to be
performed by authorized entities. Some messages require the sender to be an
observer validator, while others require the sender to be a specific policy
account.

A policy account is similar to an on-chain multisig account with members voting
for message execution.

Each group has an admin, a set of members, and a set of policy accounts. Each
policy account has an admin, an address and a decision policy (threshold of
votes, voting period, etc.).

The group mechanism on ZetaChain is powered by the [`group` Cosmos SDK
module](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.50/modules/group/).

ZetaChain can have any number of groups. Anyone can create a group. In this
document we only consider policy accounts that give authorization to perform
privileged actions.

These policy accounts are set during genesis and as any module parameter they
can be changed through governance. This is important, because even though the
protocol has a notion of admins and privileged policy accounts, they are chosen
by the community of the chain through governance. If a group/policy admin or
members of a group become malicious, the community can create a new group with
new admin and members and use the parameter change governance proposal to point
the parameter of the observer module to the new policy accounts.

The table below shows all privileged messages grouped by their required policy
account and module. Each message is organized under its respective module
(crosschain, fungible, observer, etc.) and requires authorization from the
specified policy account.

<AdminPolicy />
